how stuff works recently visited the
Suzuki plant in Rome Georgia to find out
how they build their ATVs here sales
supervisor Alan horn takes us on a
factory tour well the overall process
from start to finish takes about six
hours however on the assembly line
itself they're moving very quickly we
are actually assembling and rolling one
ATV fully complete off the end of the
assembly line every 102 seconds
the ATV assembly here starts with the us
building the frame this is taking the
two which we have imported from Japan
and bending it to the correct shape for
use in the welding and assembly of the
frame later after everything in this
area has gone through what we call
fabrication we find then that we have
the left to the right at the top and the
bottom of a frame so everything that
we've seen in the fabrication process
now is come to completion and we see the
parts hanging on these racks the
gentleman behind me now are welding
together the pieces of the frame they're
using what's called a welding jig which
is like this piece right beside me
it holds the top the bottom the left the
right components of the frame together
so that they can make the appropriate
spot welds in order to hold it all into
one frame from that point they're moved
along a roller bed which is kind of like
an assembly line
we have a it's got a what it does the
pain comes out that is if this is the
injection molding where we make the
fenders that's a very big machine this
is one of the largest machines in the
southeastern United States and then that
machine we have a 3,300 tons of pressure
squashing together the melted resin and
then just a few seconds later opening up
pull out the completed fender this is
all done robotically its pulled out by a
robot and you'll see the arm reach and
lift the fender out and drop it onto a
conveyor belt
once the frame is complete and the
fenders complete we then move the frame
to the assembly line and from that point
we begin to attach the proponents these
components are of course things like the
engine the wiring harness the handlebars
and the transmission and as it moves
down the assembly line next we attach
the fenders and other related pieces of
course an ATV won't run without gasoline
and before we take it down to the end of
line
the testing that we need to put gasoline
in the tank we use this gasoline filling
station here altogether we're using
anywhere between 200 and 300 per week
testing all righty video basically this
is a second online inspection position
what he's looking for is any missing
loose fasteners wrong labeling loose
carrier boats and basically we inspect
all ATVs from a customer standpoint so
here from the ATV has been supported by
a jig the entire time that's moved down
the assembly line we need some way to
get it off of that jig and so we use the
seesaw system here rather than a crane
to lift it on course the engine is
operating and exhaust fans are coming
out of the back of the engine so an
exhaust gas catcher is pumping up now
and this sucks the gas out of the air
right there and draws those where a
ventilation system
the full speed top speed ELISA is
somewhere around 50 miles an hour but
the operator doesn't necessarily take it
all the way at the top speed instead
what he's doing is checking to make sure
that all the gears are operating
correctly she also checks the brakes
with registration of the speedometer of
the lights after the units come off of
the drum test any leftover fuel that's
in the fuel tank is siphoned out and
sent back to the main storage tank then
it's lifted up by a electrically
assisted crane and lowered onto this
pallet 100% of our production is their
order made to take orders from the
customers five months in advance of the
actual production and customers are
ordering several hundreds of units at a
time so that's how building a Suzuki atv
works